### Synopsis ###
<pre>exec <shell command to execute></pre>


### Behavior ###
The _exec_ statement runs the command specified as an argument using a bash shell in a managed fashion.  The command is specified using a string which may be in double quotes, single quotes or triple quotes.  [Variables](Variables.md) will be evaluated and expanded even when surrounded by single quotes.  Single quotes inside double quotes are passed through to the underlying shell and thus can be used to pass values that may contain spaces.

The _exec_ statement blocks until the specified command returns.  See the [async](Async.md) statement for an alternative that launches the process in the background and returns immediately.

Long commands that are passed to _exec_ can be specified over multiple lines by using triple quotes.  Bpipe automatically removes newlines from commands so that you do not need to worry about it.

An _exec_ statement will often be embedded in a [produce](Produce.md), [filter](Filter.md) or [transform](Transform.md) block to specify and manage the outputs of the command.

### Logging ###
All commands executed via exec are automatically added to the command history for the run.

### Failure ###
If the command fails or is interrupted (by Ctrl-C or kill), the pipeline will be automatically terminated.  Any outputs specified as generated by the stage running the exec command will be marked as dirty and moved to the local bpipe trash folder.

### Examples ###

**Example 1 - echo**

```
exec "echo 'Hello World'"
```

**Example 2 - Run Samtools**

```
exec """
   samtools mpileup -uf genome.fa $input | bcftools view -bvcg - > $output
"""
```
**Example 3 - Using Multiple Lines**
This example executes the same command as Example 2, but formats it over multiple lines.
```
exec """
    samtools mpileup 
        -u
        -f genome.fa 
        $input 
      | 
        bcftools view
         -b
         -v
         -c
         -g - > $output
"""
```